src/site/notes/2. The World/People/Vaxildan & Vexalia.md, before:

---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/2. The World/People/Vaxildan & Vexalia/"}
---




> [!infobox]
> # Vaxildan & Vexalia
> ![../../z_Attachments/vex&vax.png](/img/user/z_Attachments/vex&vax.png)
> ###### Basic Information
> Info | Description |
> ---|---|
> Home | Dunhammer |
> Group | The Rarquet Assembly |
> Sex | Male · Female |
> Race | Elves |
> Age | 29 |
> Condition | Deceased, executed by Ophidia |
> ###### Rules Info
> Info | Description |
> ---|---|
> Alignment | Chaotic Neutral |
> Class | Rogue |

**Vaxildan and Vexalia** were a pair of elven assassins who served [[2. The World/Organisations/The High Syndicacy\| the High Syndicacy]] of [[2. The World/Locations/The Rarquet Assembly\| the Rarquet Assembly]]. Their assassination of the King of Alastia set off a chain of events that would lead to the [[2. The World/History/The Sundering War\|The Sundering War]]. Born as identical twins, they were abandoned by their parents at birth and taken in by [[2. The World/People/Ovina Torunn\|Ovina Torunn]] who trained them to serve her interests.

In 749 AY, under the orders of Chancellor Ovina to increase profits, the twins snuck into [[2. The World/Locations/The Kingdom of Alastia\|The Kingdom of Alastia]] and assassinated King [[2. The World/People/Arthur Hamilton\|Arthur Hamilton]]. This incited a succession crisis as the Dowager Queen Eleanor Hamilton seized the throne of Alastia over the rightful heir, the half-elf Queen Gwendolyn Hamilton. Tensions arose between Alastia and Cer'Dorei as a result of the crisis, eventually boiling over into the Sundering War.

Upon the

## Profile

This is a placeholder.

Commit message:

Update content src/site/notes/2. The World/People/Vaxildan & Vexalia.md

src/site/notes/2. The World/People/Vaxildan & Vexalia.md, after:

---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/2. The World/People/Vaxildan & Vexalia/"}
---




> [!infobox]
> # Vaxildan & Vexalia
> ![../../z_Attachments/vex&vax.png](/img/user/z_Attachments/vex&vax.png)
> ###### Basic Information
> Info | Description |
> ---|---|
> Home | Dunhammer |
> Group | The Rarquet Assembly |
> Sex | Male · Female |
> Race | Elves |
> Age | 29 |
> Condition | Deceased, executed by Ophidia |
> ###### Rules Info
> Info | Description |
> ---|---|
> Alignment | Chaotic Neutral |
> Class | Rogue |

**Vaxildan and Vexalia** were a pair of elven assassins who served [[2. The World/Organisations/The High Syndicacy\| the High Syndicacy]] of [[2. The World/Locations/The Rarquet Assembly\| the Rarquet Assembly]]. Their assassination of the King of Alastia set off a chain of events that would lead to the [[2. The World/History/The Sundering War\|The Sundering War]]. Born as identical twins, they were abandoned by their parents at birth and taken in by [[2. The World/People/Ovina Torunn\|Ovina Torunn]] who trained them to serve her interests.

In 749 AY, under the orders of Chancellor Ovina to increase profits, the twins snuck into [[2. The World/Locations/The Kingdom of Alastia\|The Kingdom of Alastia]] and assassinated King [[2. The World/People/Arthur Hamilton\|Arthur Hamilton]]. This incited a succession crisis as the Dowager Queen Eleanor Hamilton seized the throne of Alastia over the rightful heir, the half-elf Queen Gwendolyn Hamilton. Tensions arose between Alastia and Cer'Dorei as a result of the crisis, eventually boiling over into the Sundering War.

During the War, they continued to participate in clandestine missions for the Syndicacy.

In 752 AY, the twins launched an attack on [[2. The World/Locations/The Kryn Ward\| the Kryn Ward]] in [[2. The World/Locations/Ophidia\|Ophidia]]. Undetected, the twin rogues snuck into and [[2. The World/History/Attack on the Kryn Ward\| deposited a runepowder bomb at the famed local tavern]] the Black Bear. They were detected during exit by the High Mage [[2. The World/People/Felicity\|Felicity]], who was accompanying her mentor the Archmage [[2. The World/People/Maribel Merewyn\|Maribel Merewyn]] of the [[2. The World/Organisations/Ring of Gold\|Ring of Gold]]. The twins fought her off and escaped, but Vexalia loses a lock of her hair during the battle.

After the runepowder bomb detonates and kills the Archmage Maribel, the twins secured horses and began riding back to Rarquet. Unfortunately, the High Mage was able to scry on the location of the twins with the lock of Vexalia's hair; [[2. The World/Organisations/Force Grey\|Force Grey]] was then dispatched to arrest them.

The twins were interrogated by Force Grey for almost two weeks; eventually, they confessed and revealed their patron: Chancellor Ovina Torunn of the High Syndicacy of the Rarquet Assembly. They were subsequently executed, although historians could not agree on the method: some believed they were trialed by the [[2. The World/Organisations/Ring of Gold\|Ring of Gold]], while many believe the High Mage herself delivered the *coup de grace*.
